
Answer the following questions


1) What is an instance variable?

A way of storing data within the instance of an object.

2) How do you create a new object?

By creating a class and assigning variables.

3) After creating a new object, how do you set that objects instance variables?

Define it's data type and name. (ex. int audience)

4) What is a reference variable? Why do you need to be careful with reference variables?

A variable that refers to an object instead of a primitive type variable. You need to be careful because you are changing the
object that that the reference variable refers to.

5) How many methods can you have in a class?
Unlimited

6) How do you exit a method at any point?
return

7) What is the method signature required to return an "int" from a method?

int someMeth (){
}

8) Assuming "int num = 10", what is the syntax to return "num" from a method?

int someMeth(){
    int num = 10;
    return num;
    }

9) How do you pass a parameter to a method?
Declare it inside the parantheses that follow the methods name.


10) What is the method signature for a method named sum() that takes two int parameters and returns their sum as in int?
int sum(a,b){
 sum = a+b;
 return sum;
 }

11) What is a constructor?
It initializes an object when it is created.


12) How does Java treat a class without a constructor?
All classes "have" constructors. Java will put everything to null, zero and false.


13) What would the constructor for "public class Animal" look like?

public class Animal(int e, boolean f){
    eyes = e;
    fur = f;
    }


14) What is the effect of passing parameters to a constructor?

It initializes the instance variable.


15) When should you pass parameters to a constructor?

When you want to ensure that an objcet is created with the required data points.


16) What does the finalize() method do?

Ensures an object terminates cleanly.


17) What does the "this" keyword do?

allows you to refer to variables within the object.


18) When should you use the "this" keyword?

When referencing a variable within the same object.


19) Write an example of the "this" keyword in action.

Animal(int e, boolean f){
this.e = e;
this.f = f;
}

20.) EXplain the difference between static and non-static variables.

Static - you only need to specify the name of its class followed by the dot operator.
Non static - you need to create an objcet.


21.) Explain the difference between static and non-static methods.

Static - called through the class name
Non-static - needs an object of that class created
