Answer the following:

1) What are the access control modifiers (acm) provided in Java?

public, private, protected

2) Briefly explain each acm and how they differentiate from each other?

public - class  is can be accessed by any other code in the program
private - class can be accessed only by members of its class
protected - class is accessible within its package and to all subclasses.

3) Why do we use acm's?

To ensure that we control what data or methods can be changed.

4) What is the risk of not using acm's?

Easy to make changes to written code either on purpose or by mistake resulting in busted code.

5) Write a method signature that receives an object of type "Car" as a parameter.

public static void myCar (Car){
}

6) Write a method signature that returns an object of type "Car".

void myCar (Car){
return Car;


7) What is a very important consideration to keep in mind when passing objects (hint: by reference) from one
method to another?

That the reference variables will change as they're passed from one method to another.

8) What is method overloading?

When we allow a method to accept multiple sets of parameters (or none).

9) Why is method overloading useful? (Hint: as compared to the implementation in the C language.)

So we can still run methods based on different paramers being passed.

10) How do you overload a method? What signifies that a method is being overloaded?

When it is listed multiple times and has the same name but different parameter requirements.

11) Below, by writing just the method signature, demonstrate overloading a method 3 times.

void someMeth()
void someMeth(int a)
void someMeth(double a, double b)

12) How do you overload a constructor? What signifies that a constructor is being overloaded?

Add different parameter(s) to the same constructor. When a constructor of the same name has multiple parameters it can accept.

13) Why do we overload constructors?
Provide flexibility in the way objects are constructed.

14) Below, by writing just the constructor signature, demonstrate overloading a constructor 3 times.

MyClass()
MyClass(int a)
MyClass(char x)

15) What is recursion?

When a method calls itself.

16) What important considerations must you keep in mind when using recursion?



17) How do you make a method recursive?

Return the result to the method

18) How do you escape a recursive method?

using an if statement

19) Explain what "static" is all about?

Defining a class member that will be used independantly of any object of that class.

20) When should you use "static"?

 When you want a class member that will be used independantly of any object of that class.

21) What differentiates static variables from instance variables?

They are global variables meaning that when an object is created no copy of a static variable is created.

22) What is a the quicksort? Briefly describe how the quicksort works.

A sorting algorithm. You set a value as the middle value (or like a post) and then sort the rest of the values onto each side of the post.
Then repeat that process.

23) What is a nested, or inner, class?

A class declared within another class.

24) What is the scope of a nested class?

The extent of it's outer classes.

25) What is a variable-arity method?

A method that takes a variable number of arguements.

26) What makes a variable-arity method unique? When should you use it?

It can accept any number of arguments. When we don't know how many arguments may be passed to the method.

27) What is the shorthand name for variable-arity?

Varargs

28) Why important considerations must you keep in mind when using variable-arity methods? (hint: ambiguity)

When you overload a method with varargs the compiler will not know which is correct.